.TH "MK" "1" "December 2025" "Ahmad Raniri" "General Commands Manual"
.nh
.ad l
.SH NAME
mk \- Makefile-based package manager.
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f[B]mk\f[R] [\f[B]achilrsuv\f[R]] 

[\f[B]content \f[I]PKG=package\f[R]] [\f[B]help\f[R]] [\f[B]install \f[I]PKG=<package archive>\f[R]] [\f[B]info \f[I]PKG=package\f[R]] [\f[B]list\f[R]] [\f[B]remove \f[I]PKG=<package path>\f[R]] [\f[B]search \f[I]q=query\f[R]] [\f[B]upgrade \f[I]PKG=<package archive>\f[R]] [\f[B]view \f[I]PKG=package\f[R]]
.SH DESCRIPTION
mk(1) is Makefile-based package manager, written in Makefile script. Its main function is to show informations about package, like name, version, installed files, etc. I made it to check installed packages on LFS (Linux From Scratch) Musl.
.SH OPTIONS
The following are the options that mk(1) accepts.
.TP
\f[B]h\f[R], \f[B]help\f[R]
show help options.
.RE
.TP
\f[B]c \f[I]PKG=package\f[R], \f[B]content \f[I]PKG=package\f[R]
List contents of a package.
.RE
.TP
\f[B]i \f[I]PKG=package\f[R], \f[B]info \f[I]PKG=package\f[R]
view package information.
.RE
.TP
\f[B]a \f[I]PKG=<package archive>\f[R], \f[B]install \f[I]PKG=<package archive>\f[R]
install package archive.
.RE
.TP
\f[B]l\f[R], \f[B]list\f[R]
show installed packages.
.RE
.TP
\f[B]r \f[I]PKG=<package path>\f[R], \f[B]remove \f[I]PKG=<package path>\f[R]
remove package archive.
.RE
.TP
\f[B]s \f[I]q=query\f[R], \f[B]search \f[I]q=query\f[R]
search installed package.
.RE
.TP
\f[B]u \f[I]PKG=<package archive>\f[R], \f[B]upgrade \f[I]PKG=<package archive>\f[R]
upgrade package.
.RE
.TP
\f[B]v \f[I]PKG=package\f[R], \f[B]view \f[I]PKG=package\f[R]
view package Makefile information.

.SH NOTES
Before trying to use this package manager :
.RE
.TP
1. It will cause a conflict with your current package manager.
.RE
.TP
2. If you previously built a package from source, you need to pass P=1 env when installing package to prune any conflict.
.RE
	e.g \f[B]/path/to/mk a P=1 /path/to/package.tar.gz
.RE
.TP
3. Make sure you already have busybox package as fallback utility.
.TP

.SH AUTHORS
Ahmad Raniri \c
.MT lidgnulinux@gmail.com
.ME \c
\ and contributors.
